Textual Introduction
By Barbara Mowat and Paul Werstine
Until now, with the release of the Folger Digital Texts, readers in
search of a free online text of Shakespeare’s plays had to be content
primarily with using the Moby™ Text, which reproduces a late-
nineteenth century version of the plays. What is the difference? Many
ordinary readers assume that there is a single text for the plays: what
Shakespeare wrote. But Shakespeare’s plays were not published the
way modern novels or plays are published today: as a single,
authoritative text. In some cases, the plays have come down to us in
multiple published versions, represented by various Quartos (Qq) and
by the great collection put together by his colleagues in 1623, called
the First Folio (F). There are, for example, three very different
versions of Hamlet, two of King Lear, Henry V, Romeo and Juliet,
and others. Editors choose which version to use as their base text, and
then amend that text with words, lines or speech prefixes from the
other versions that, in their judgment, make for a better or more
accurate text.
Other editorial decisions involve choices about whether an unfamiliar
word could be understood in light of other writings of the period or
whether it should be changed; decisions about words that made it into
Shakespeare’s text by accident through four hundred years of
printings and misprinting; and even decisions based on cultural
preference and taste. When the Moby™ Text was created, for
example, it was deemed “improper” and “indecent” for Miranda to
chastise Caliban for having attempted to rape her. (See The Tempest,
1.2: “Abhorred slave,/Which any print of goodness wilt not
take,/Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee…”). All Shakespeare
editors at the time took the speech away from her and gave it to her
father, Prospero.
The editors of the Moby™ Shakespeare produced their text long
before scholars fully understood the proper grounds on which to make
the thousands of decisions that Shakespeare editors face. The Folger
Library Shakespeare Editions, on which the Folger Digital Texts
depend, make this editorial process as nearly transparent as is
possible, in contrast to older texts, like the Moby™, which hide
editorial interventions. The reader of the Folger Shakespeare knows
where the text has been altered because editorial interventions are
signaled by square brackets (for example, from Othello: “ If she in
chains of magic were not bound, ”), half-square brackets (for
example, from Henry V: “With blood and sword and fire to win your
p , y y
right,”), or angle brackets (for example, from Hamlet: “O farewell,
honest soldier. Who hath relieved/you?”). At any point in the text,
you can hover your cursor over a bracket for more information.
Because the Folger Digital Texts are edited in accord with twenty-first
century knowledge about Shakespeare’s texts, the Folger here
provides them to readers, scholars, teachers, actors, directors, and
students, free of charge, confident of their quality as texts of the plays
and pleased to be able to make this contribution to the study and
enjoyment of Shakespeare.


Synopsis
Caesar’s assassination is just the halfway point of Julius Caesar. The
first part of the play leads to his death; the second portrays the
consequences. As the action begins, Rome prepares for Caesar’s
triumphal entrance. Brutus, Caesar’s friend and ally, fears that Caesar
will become king, destroying the republic. Cassius and others
convince Brutus to join a conspiracy to kill Caesar.
On the day of the assassination, Caesar plans to stay home at the
urging of his wife, Calphurnia. A conspirator, Decius Brutus,
persuades him to go to the Senate with the other conspirators and his
friend, Mark Antony. At the Senate, the conspirators stab Caesar to
death. Antony uses a funeral oration to turn the citizens of Rome
against them. Brutus and Cassius escape as Antony joins forces with
Octavius Caesar.
Encamped with their armies, Brutus and Cassius quarrel, then agree to
march on Antony and Octavius. In the battle which follows, Cassius,
misled by erroneous reports of loss, persuades a slave to kill him;
Brutus’s army is defeated. Brutus commits suicide, praised by Antony
as “the noblest Roman of them all.”



Title: Julius Caesar

Author: William Shakespeare

Release date: November 1, 1998 [eBook #1522]
                Most recently updated: September 19, 2025

Language: English

Credits: the PG Shakespeare Team, a team of about twenty Project Gutenberg volunteers


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JULIUS CAESAR ***




THE TRAGEDY OF
JULIUS CAESAR


by William Shakespeare




Contents

 ACT-I
 Scene-I. Rome. A street
 Scene-II. The same. A public place
 Scene-III. The same. A street

 ACT-II
 Scene-I. Rome. Brutus’ orchard
 Scene-II. A room in Caesar’s palace
 Scene-III. A street near the Capitol
 Scene-IV. Another part of the same street, before the house of Brutus

 ACT-III
 Scene-I. Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting
 Scene-II. The same. The Forum
 Scene-III. The same. A street

 ACT-IV
 Scene-I. A room in Antony’s house
 Scene-II. Before Brutus’ tent, in the camp near Sardis
 Scene-III. Within the tent of Brutus

 ACT-V
 Scene-I. The plains of Philippi
 Scene-II. The same. The field of battle
 Scene-III. Another part of the field
 Scene-IV. Another part of the field
 Scene-V. Another part of the field




 Dramatis Personæ


JULIUS CAESAR
OCTAVIUS CAESAR, Triumvir after his death.
MARCUS ANTONIUS,    ”    ”     ”
M. AEMILIUS LEPIDUS,   ”    ”     ”
CICERO, PUBLIUS, POPILIUS LENA, Senators.
MARCUS BRUTUS, Conspirator against Caesar.
CASSIUS, ”    ”     ”
CASCA,   ”    ”     ”
TREBONIUS,     ”    ”     ”
LIGARIUS,”    ”     ”
DECIUS BRUTUS, ”    ”     ”
METELLUS CIMBER,     ”    ”     ”
CINNA,   ”    ”     ”
FLAVIUS, tribune
MARULLUS, tribune
ARTEMIDORUS, a Sophist of Cnidos.
A Soothsayer
CINNA, a poet.
Another Poet.
LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, MESSALA, young CATO, and VOLUMNIUS, Friends to
Brutus and Cassius.
VARRO, CLITUS, CLAUDIUS, STRATO, LUCIUS, DARDANIUS, Servants to Brutus
PINDARUS, Servant to Cassius

CALPHURNIA, wife to Caesar
PORTIA, wife to Brutus

The Ghost of Caesar

Senators, Citizens, Soldiers, Commoners, Messengers, and Servants.

SCENE: Rome, the conspirators’ camp near Sardis, and the plains of
Philippi.
